Hello. In this video,
you're going to learn to
manipulate vectors by
performing some simple
vector arithmetic.
Meaning by adding vectors
or subtracting vectors,
you'll be able to
predict the countries of
certain capitals. Let's dive in.
I'll show you how to manipulate
vector representations
in order to infer unknown
relations among words.
Suppose that you
have a vector space
with countries and
their capital cities.
You know that the capital of
the United States
is Washington DC,
and you don't know the
capital of Russia.
But you'd like to use the
known relationship between
Washington DC and the
USA to figure it out.
For that, you'll just
use some vector algebra.
For this example,
you are in a hypothetical
two-dimensional
vector space that
has different
representations for
different countries
and capitals cities.
First, you will have to find
the relationship between
the Washington DC,
and USA vector representations.
In other words, which
vector connects them?
To do that, get the difference
between the two vectors.
The values from that will
tell you how many units on
each dimension you
should move in order to
find a country's capital
in that vector space.
To find the capital
city of Russia,
you will have to sum its
vector representation
with the vector that you
also got in the last step.
At the end, you should
deduce that the capital of
Russia has a vector
representation of 10, 4.
However, there are no cities
with that representation,
so you'll have to take the one
that is the most
similar to it's by
comparing each vector with
a Euclidean distances
or cosine similarities.
In this case, the vector
representation that
is closest to the 10,
4 is the one for Moscow.
Using the simple process,
you could have predicted
the capital of
Russia if you knew the
capital of the USA.
The only catch here is that
you need a vector space
where the
representations capture
the relative meaning of words.
Now you have a simple
process to get
unknown relationships
between words,
by the use of known
relationships between others.
You now know the importance
of having vector spaces where
the representations of words
capture their relative
meaning in natural language.
In upcoming parts of
this specialization,
you'll perform more
sophisticated tasks
taking advantage of
this representation.
You have now seen
the clustering of
all vectors when
plotted on two axes.
You have also seen that
the vectors of the words
that occur in similar
places in the sentence,
will be encoded
in a similar way.
You can take advantage
of this type of
consistency encoding
to identify patterns.
For example, if you have
the word doctor and
you are to find
the closest words
that are closest to
it by computing
cosine similarity,
you might get the word doctors,
nurse, cardiologist,
surgeon, etc.
In the next video,
you will learn how to to plot
these d-dimensional
vectors on a 2D plane.